# Bike-Renting-
A Bike Renting Regression model, to closely predict as to many bikes will be rented at any particular day of the year. Coding implementation done in R and Python. Also attached, a comprehensive project report and Instructions to deploy and run code for better understanding of various Regression models and related graphs.

Steps to operate:

1) Both R and Python files are provided respectively to run on DOS(cmd) and Jupyter notebooks.
2) "Instructions to deploy and run code.pdf" has been provided for smmoth running of code which is helped by images of how to run R and Python files on Dos and Jupyter UI.
3) "R plots.pdf" is generated while running the R-Dos file and it contains all the graphs which are generated by R interpreter while running on DOS.
4) "day.csv" contains the sample data, on which we make certain different regression models.
5) "Comprehensive Project Report.pdf" contains all the different types of processing techniques and emphasize on individual of all the respective pre-processing and model making       techniques which are as follows:
    
  ★ Contents 
    1. Preprocessing of Data 
        1.1 Loading data. 
        1.2 Python packages and methods used 
        1.3 R packages and methods used 
        1.4 Input data to predict 
        1.5 Boxplot for variables 
        1.6 Outlier Analysis 
        1.7 Histogram to check spread for data
        1.8 Correlation Analysis 
        1.9 Feature Scaling 
        1.10 Principal Component Analysis  
      
   2. Models with different error metrics
        2.1 Multiple Linear Regression 
        2.2 Decision Tree model 
        2.3 Random forest model 
        2.4 Ridge Regression model 
        2.5 KNN model 
        2.6 Lasso Regression model 
        2.7 Gradient Boosting algorithm 
        2.8 Extreme Gradient Boosting (XGB) model 
        2.9 Support Vector Regression model 
 
   3.Conclusion report 
